# N3X Generic Exchange Protocol
N3X is the generic contract layer, primarily with a single abstract sub-object representing an offer of any trade, obligations and arbitration schemes. An `offer` is a `kind` of `content` inside a Nostr `event`.

Clients can choose to implement and understand whatever offer type it supports. Clients do not need to understand every type of offers or support all trade mechanisms. Its possible to have a trade client that only discovers particular kinds of on-chain trades, but not Lightning trades. Or clients that do not deal with trades that has any settlement with Bitcoin at all, and only uses Bitcoin as fidelity bonds to protect the non-Bitcoin settled trade.

It is not mandatory, but it is recommended that clients and trade designs implements Proof of Work requirements into the initial order making and taking process.

### Kind
A unique kind number can be assigned for N3X Offers to both signify the event type, along with allowing the overriding of the content to be arbitrary JSONs, which is necessary for N3X Offer Object to be implemented. An NIP shall be proposed to make sure Nostr recognizes this in a inter-compatible manner. Alternatively, a generic JSON content event type can be proposed, along with a unique tag to identify and implement N3X Offers.

| kind | description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| 6102 | N3X Offer   |

### Offer Type
An `offer_type` field is inside the N3X Offer Object. To make Nostr event query more specific and concise, the `offer_type` shall be duplicated with the prefix `"n3x-offertype-"` as a tag value, against a tag name of `"#x"`. Note that [NIP-12 Generic Tag Queries](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/12.md) supported relay is required to take advantage of this.

### N3X Generic Offer Object
```
{
  ...
  "content": {
    "offer_type": <string>
    "trade_mechanics": <string>
    "trade_mechanics_details" <arbitrary JSON?>
    "maker_obligation_type": <string>
    "maker_obligation_details": <arbitrary JSON specifying obligation maker has to fulfill contract>
    "taker_obligation_type": <string>
    "taker_obligation_details": <arbitrary JSON specifying obligation taker has to fulfill contract>
    "dispute_resolution_type": <string>
    "dispute_resolution_details": <arbitrary JSON?>
    "pow_difficulty": <minimum difficulty for a NIP-13 note to take the order, in integer>
  }
  ...
}
```

### Invalidation
Once an offer have been accepted or cancelled, an offer shall be deleted via [NIP-09 Event Deletion](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/09.md). 

### Updates
Clients needs to be careful whether to allow for updates of an offer once it has been published to a relay. As it is, a `kind` value of `6102` assumes the offer is not a replaceable event. Unless overwhelming evidence indicates so otherwise, offers are assumed to be un-editable to avoid potential race conditions. An update to an offer shall result in a deletion and a new offer event published.

### Expiry
Clients should enforce the setting of [NIP-40 Expiry Timestamp](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/40.md) so offers will not linger forever in a relay. Exact duration of this is client dependent. However from a naive initial guestimation, there shouldn't be any reason to have an offer to be outstanding for more than 30 days. More volatile markets might make sense to have this time-window be further constrained. Client can have mechanisms to replay an offer upon expiry after notifying the user for intervention.

### N3X Encrypted Messaging
N3X Encrypted Messaging is a standardization of communications between participants of an exchange, including the maker, taker, arbitrators, etc. Nostr event `kind` value of 4 will remain to be used to make it difficult to distinguish N3X messages from regular DMs. N3X messages will be distinguished via a marked header in the beginning of the Nostr event `content` where trade participant's client software would understand to be a N3X encrypted message.

Often times manual user actions, or a wake-up of a mobile client, is required to make sure the trade continues. Mobile push notification will be very valuable in these cases. As it is Nostr does not have any support for generating mobile push notifications. A NIP proposal have been made for mobile push [here](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/issues/257). This is not required to make N3X possible, but it would be a huge improvement to the overall experience and usability if the capability is available.

[NIP-24 Private, Encrypted Direct Messaging](https://github.com/jeffthibault/nips/blob/private-messages-v2/24.md) is also a work in progress to make Nostr DM more anonymous. However if push notification is to be employed by relays, there is no way to obfuscate who the actual recipient is. This might be a privacy trade-off that a client implementation must make.

### N3X Encrypted Message Object
```
{
  ...
  "content": {
    "header": <32-bit unique constant value to identify this to be N3X encrypted message>
    "offer_id": <32-bytes lowercase id of the event that contains the offer this message corresponds to>
    "num_attachments": <number of attachments this message contains>
    "attachments": <list of attachments, which each is a JSON object>
  }
  ...
}
```

### N3X Generic Message Attachment Object
```
{
  "attachment_type": <integer>
  "payload": <depends on the attachment type - can be JSON, can be a binary (eg, Bitcoin Tx), can be a string (eg. LN Invoice)>
}
```